Finally, we come to the problem of interpolating
between two poses. Poses have got a translational
and a rotational component. We need to interpolate
them separately. We refer to this as Cartesian
interpolation. Let’s consider two poses;
pose 0 and pose 1, each can be represented
by a rotation matrix and a vector. We can
convert the rotation matrix of each pose into
a unique quaternion and we can interpolate
the translation using the linear interpolation
formula that we introduced earlier. S is a
function of time, varies smoothly from 0 to
1 over the duration of the trajectory. And,
we interpolate the rotation using the quaternion
interpolation formula that we introduced in
the last section. If we want, we can convert
the interpolated quaternion back to a rotation
matrix, combine it with the interpolated translation
and rebuild a homogeneous transformation matrix.
Let’s now interpolate between two poses
described in terms of homogeneous transformation
matrices. The first pose is a null pose. It
just got 0 orientation and a translational
component of 0. The second pose has a finite
translational component and a finite rotational
component and is defined by this homogeneous
transformation matrix here. Now, I can create
a smooth trajectory between these two poses
using the Toolbox function, ctraj which stands
for Cartesian trajectory. And, the arguments
are the initial pose, the final pose and the
number of time steps. The result is a matrix
that’s 4 x 4 x 50. Once again, this is
a stack of homogeneous transformation matrices.
The first element in the stack, look at all
the rows and all the columns and the first
in the stack looks like this. But, the 10th
one in the stack, look at all the rows and
all the columns and the 10th in the stack
looks like this.
Each homogeneous transformation in this stack
represents a pose along a trajectory and pose
varies smoothly along this trajectory, smoothly
in terms of translation and smoothly in terms
of orientation. I can plot this using the
tranimate function and we see here that the
pose is changing from the initial pose to
the final pose smoothly in position and in orientation.